Was he a former Yale leader? No, he was not. Okay. He
was in the Corps and then he went on to get his
graduate degree and then went to Tech for a while
and then came back. And when you went out of town,
normally what did you all wear? We had travel
uniforms. we would wear, it was always up to the
yell leaders to picket and that the university
would provide those as well. Like we had khaki
pants, a shirt that had embroidered yell leader in
our class year, the block A&M, and then jackets for
when it was cold. Alright, Landon Shreveport, how
long was it before somebody recognized you as an
Aggie yell leader? Right off the plane. Simply
because there were five guys, all with the same
haircut, all wearing the same thing. And so either
an IU would recognize us or someone would ask us. I
mean, it was all the time. And they were cordial?
Very cordial, very cordial. Even people from
other schools, that was the neat thing, except
Texas Tech. Texas Tech and University of Texas
were the two that just were bad. Okay, then, so
Louisiana Tech. Then where was the next big
out-of-town game? Probably Missouri was really
big.
I think that was the last one of the year. I remember
Nebraska was a big out-of-town game. Up there?
Yeah. We went to Nebraska, to Oklahoma City, to
Missouri, to Shreveport. and then to Tech that
year. I think those were our five away games. What
was your impression of a game at Lincoln? Amazing.
Lincoln, Nebraska is amazing for football. The
fans, very similar fans as far as A&M and Nebraska
goes. Undying support for their team and they
aren't rude to the opposing team. It was great.
Usually when we went places we'd get some funny
looks. People would make fun of us simply because
of what we were wearing, what we were doing. Never
happened in Nebraska. They gave a standing
ovation to our band. They, when we were doing it
after the game, we have a yell practice when we
obviously get outscored when the time runs out.
And so we did our yell practice. Then afterwards,
people were just coming up, left and right, just
being like, man, we're so impressed with y'all.
The fact that y'all are yelling even though you
were down, it was just, it was very, it was a good
feeling, you know, just because you got support
even though we didn't necessarily deserve it, you
know, which was really neat. I was a chancellor at
Missouri, but before, what was your impression
there? Missouri was neat, and it was neat simply
because we had lost a couple games, and then we won
that one, and so it was really good. It was like a
running upswing. I remember being very happy
about us winning. We stayed in St. Louis, and it was
a really good time simply because I'd been saving
money, and I got to take Kate with me up to Missouri.
Now, she went to Shreveport with us, and She went to
Oklahoma City, but she went to Oklahoma City
because she drove. But I bought Kate a plane ticket
to go to St. Louis with us. So that was a really,
really neat weekend for us. and right then like
dusty who was one of the senior leaders he hadn't
had a girlfriend and he had just gotten a
girlfriend a couple months before so he brought
her as well and so we just had a really good time that
was a really fun time for the five of us to have fun in
another city because we had time to do so does that
make sense so we really just kind of walked around
st louis kind of experienced what st louis was
because i had never been there before so that was
The thing that I'm going to pull away from Yell
Leader so much is just the opportunities that it
gave me that I just wouldn't have had otherwise. I
mean, I just wouldn't have had it. For instance,
something that we got to do, the volleyball team
did really good last year when I was a junior Yell
Leader. They made it to the Sweet 16 of the NCAA
tournament, and our bracket was in Honolulu,
Hawaii. So we got to go to Hawaii. So there's five of
us. I picture there's five Yell Leaders there.
three twenty two year olds one twenty one year old
and one twenty year old and we go to hawaii we have
rusty doesn't go with us so it's pretty much the
five of us with no chaperones for five days the week
of finals okay so we missed all our finals and we get
out of them someone had to take a final there but the
rest of us we just thankfully our teachers helped
with it worked with us and we took them before or
afterwards so we go to hawaii and none of us had ever
been to hawaii before And it was just absolutely
hysterical. It was the five of us with the
volleyball team and the volleyball team coaches
and some people in the athletic department. And we
just had the time of our lives. I mean, first thing
we did, we got off the plane, we went and rented
scooters. And the guy who rented his scooters was
just this, I mean, it was just funny. Like we still
sit around and every once in a while when we get back
together, the old guys from last year will tell
stories about that trip. I mean, those are going to
be stories that we talk about. for a long time.
During that first fall as a Yale leader, how much
time did you spend of your waking moments? Doing
something having to do with Yale leader? Yeah.
60%,
70% of my waking time. What about your class
attendance rate? It was relatively good. You find
that Yale leaders, unless they're just people
that don't care about grades, but if they have any
care about grades, their grades get better once
they become a Yale leader. They take less hours,
obviously, but their grades become better
because most people, when you get busy, you budget
your time better, you study better, you don't
waste as much time, which leads to a very active
lifestyle and you don't get to rest a lot, but... It
was good. Like, it was really good. I remember...
Well, there were some classes that I just didn't go
to because I didn't like them. But... Missed a lot
of Friday classes, obviously, for away games.
There was one teacher who just didn't... Just
could care less what I was. And they just didn't
budge an inch. Didn't budge an inch about stuff. I
remember it was an English class. It was English
222 World Literature with Snodgrass. Mr.
Snodgrass. Dr. Snodgrass. I don't know. Anyway.
And... I had done something out at the bonfire
site. It's just a tradition that the Y'all Leaders
did out there, and I was there until 5.15 in the
morning. So I went home, and I was relatively
physically bruised, and my hands were bloody and
stuff like that, simply because of the work that I
was doing. And I remember I had to clean up, put
bandages on, all that kind of stuff, and then by the
time that came around, it was about 7.30. So what I
did is I just went, ate breakfast, got some coffee,
and... I didn't make it to class perfectly on time.
It was an 8 o'clock class. I got there like at 8.05.
And we have quizzes, random attendance quizzes.
And I didn't make it to that quiz. And so right after
the class period, I walked downstairs and I walked
down and talked to him. I was like, sir, is there any
way that maybe I could make up this quiz? I was doing
something, something, something along those
lines. And he said, well, you should have thought
about that when you run, shouldn't you? Now, and so
your first year as a yield leader is 99. And
did you, as a yield leader, did you go out to the cut
area? I never went out to cut, no. We were always
doing stuff on weekends, obviously game weekends
or whatever. It was never one of those things where
we had the time to go put in to cut. But went out to the
stack site a couple times. And where were you when
you heard? I was in my room. How did you hear?
Someone knocked on the door. You were asleep?
Yeah, I was asleep. This is off campus? No, I was on
campus. I lived in Aston Hall. I moved back on
campus my junior year. I moved back onto campus.
Once I made Yell Leader, I realized that there's
just no way I could maintain that schedule without
being on campus. So I moved onto Southside, Aston
Hall. And I remember, it was funny, I had a Yell
Leader function that night. And I remember
walking in. I was good friends with the crew chiefs
in my dorm. So I remember walking into my dorm and
them getting ready to go do their shift. Aston Hall
was one of the ships that were out there that night.
And Bill Davis, who is actually a friend of mine who
is our crew chief, he is actually one of the ones
injured. He broke his arm real bad. But I remember
them being there and them yelling, hey, Ricky, do
you want to go out there tonight? And I remember
this is so plain to me. Like, here's the corner of
the wall. They're standing down there. My room is
down there. And I remember standing there. And I
thought about it for like a minute, like for a good
15, 20 seconds. I was like, can I go? I was like,
when's the next shift? And they're like, we're
doing it tomorrow night. And I was like, man, I got a
quiz tomorrow morning. I was like, I'll come
tomorrow night. So they're like, OK, fine. So I
went to my room. Did whatever my room went to sleep
about. 2.40 in the morning, someone knocked on the
door and said, hey, bonfire just fell. We need to
see who's in the dorm and who's not. So I run back
out. I mean, of course, I run out to the field, and
I'm just out on the field the rest of the morning.
How long before you knew that someone of your
acquaintance was hurt? Was hurt.
A couple hours. I mean, I knew quite a few of the
people they got. I knew two of the guys that
actually passed away. When you got to the site, how
many people were there observing? A couple
hundred. There were a couple hundred. Was there
any emergency equipment already there? Yes. Yes,
there was emergency equipment there. As far as you
can now determine, looking back, Was there any
reaction to Bonfire in terms of what people tried
to do soon after the collapse? Define the
question, what do you mean? Like physically try to
do, like help? Yeah, it's fallen. Is there
anything that people did after that that was an
error or that they failed to do that they should
have done? Like, I have the impression just about
everybody reacted about as well as they could
have. Yeah, I don't think anything could have been
done differently. I mean, you can't just go in
there and start pulling logs, obviously. But,
yeah, I mean, from my take on the situation,
everything was handled great. Did all the other
Yale leaders, were they all out there? Not with, at
different times we went out there. I remember
seeing a couple of them sometimes. But you went as
an individual? I went as an individual. Not as a
young man? No, I went as myself. I went as Ricky. And
how long did you stay out there? I was out there
until about 10, 15. In the morning? In the morning.
And what were you and your buddies, your closest
friends, what were you all thinking, saying,
doing? Well, actually we had a meeting about what
we were going to do, just because obviously
Bonfire was in four days. And as a Yale leader,
Bonfire was a big part of what we did, so we had to
decide what we were going to do, what was going to
happen. Had a couple meetings with the Vice
President of Student Affairs, had a couple
meetings just the five of us, came up with ideas,
came up with what we wanted to do. I remember just
standing out there, I remember this really
vividly, just standing out there And just
sitting, and honestly just sitting. And my phone,
I had my cell phone on me at that time, and my cell
phone was just running off the hook. I mean, every
three seconds, I'd be on the phone and another call
would come in. I mean, it was everybody from my
parents to friends that I hadn't seen since first
grade, my principals. I mean, everybody, anyone
that knew that I was a Yale leader, just because
they knew that Yale leaders had a lot to do with
bonfire. So they didn't know if I was on the stack or
not. Did you see, did you visibly see some of the
victims who were picked up and taken? I did. Our
number three son is a radiologist at St. Joseph,
and he was on call that night. He does not talk about
it at all. Because I get the impression, this is my
conclusion, so that he's innocent of it, but I get
the impression that some of the x-rays that he
looked at and saw, just people just squashed and
impressed. Then I have in there on my desk Mrs.
Curley's just finished book about what she and her
husband went through. The son, he died one day
before his father's birthday. Guess what his SAT
score was? 1540. Tested out a 45. He was an amazing
kid. Did everybody pool together? Yes. Totally.
It was amazing. I remember going to the service we
had that night in Reed Arena. And I went, and I
remember getting there about an hour and a half
early and getting one of the seats near the front on
the floor. And just, I mean, it was amazing. Like,
you couldn't describe it. You just couldn't
describe it. Now you said that you Yale leaders
discussed what you all thought were going to
recommend. What did you all recommend? To have a
Yale practice. To have a modified Yale practice.
To have something... It couldn't be... Because
the thing that we didn't want is there was all this
talk about... doing away with the rivalry you know
this rivalry you know 12 students have died and yes
12 students have died i'm not taking away from that
at all but what we did not want to do was have another
memorial service we didn't want to have another
memorial service there was going to be that the
candlelight vigil that night we didn't want to
have another memorial service in Caulfield is
essentially what it was. And there was a football
game the next day, and it was a big football game.
The University of Texas was number five in the
nation at that point. That was a very big time for
us. And we didn't want it to be another memorial
service. And so we tried to come up with stuff to
which would be uplifting. And that night, there's
probably six memories that are going to stay with
me for the rest of my life. Oh, cool. Just visually.
Describe those. From Yell Leader.
See if I can remember them. One is definitely...
That night, that night on the cow field with all,
when the cannon is, I don't know if you were there or
not, but there was a point in the Yale practice when
the cannon 12, fired 12 times and we were arm and arm
at the 50 yard line. And there were all the candles
around us. And literally, I mean, we were five
grown men that were just weeping, just weeping.
That was amazing. That was one. Another one was
when we won the next day when we beat Texas in a game
where we shouldn't have won. But we won. That was
amazing. As you saw the team in action, were you
aware that they seemed to have something? Very
much so. Being in that locker room, it was really
neat being in the locker room before the games just
because you got to see the team and you got to see how
they warmed up. And it was completely different.
There was just a different feel. How? What was the
feel? Was it quieter? Yeah. It wasn't as loud,
honestly. More serious? Much more serious. It's
like there was a purpose other than just football
that day. And did the coaches seem to reflect that
too? Very much so. Very much so. It was... And were
you on the field when the Longhorn band? I was. I was
on the field. I couldn't see it, honestly, because
one of the requirements, not requirements, but
one of the things we do is we kind of guard the field
during the bands because we don't want anyone
running down out of the field. And so we are on a knee
at the 50-yard line on the visitor's side. And so we
really can't see anything. So we didn't see the
front and see what they were doing. But we heard
about it. And we heard obviously a lot of cheering
and a lot of whooping. So we heard that that was
amazing. And you heard Amazing Grace. Obviously.
Obviously. That's one of the things was singing
Amazing Grace in Reed Arena that night. Just how it
just spurred up. And no one wanted to leave.
That was amazing. It really, truly was. All right.
Now that, obviously, the toughest, most serious
moment of that whole season. Go to the other
extreme now. What were some of the goofiest
moments of being a first year? Goofiest moments of
being a first year? Yeah.
Do you remember goofing up yourself and getting
the wrong yell? Oh man, I remember one time we were
doing fish camps. one of the requirements during
the summer that we do is we go up and we do the yell
practices at fish camp and it was the first one and
we were so nervous because this was the first time
that we were in front of actually new students we
had done the new student conferences okay parents
were there it wasn't a big deal this is completely
students okay right now we are doing our job we are
teaching yells and we're doing a full yell
practice and oh man i was just so nervous like i was
flipping out i get up there and i say okay this is the
yell that we're going to do and i pass it back and i
teach the wrong yell I teach the wrong yell. And I
remember doing it and just going...
And the head yell at the time, Jeff Bailey comes up
and is like, oh, you got him, Ricky. That was a good
joke. And so then I was like, oh, yeah, it was. And so
then we teach the other one. And so I taught the
other one. But we got in a lot of trouble that night.
Because I wasn't the only one that messed up. The
other junior messed up as well. And so we got in
trouble that night. The ride home was not fun,
let's put it that way. Oh, for you sophomores. I
mean, you juniors. Yeah, the ride home wasn't fun.
Because we messed up. The seniors didn't mess up.
If the seniors would have messed up, then we would
have been okay. But the seniors didn't mess up, and
we did. And so it was bad. But it was a learning
experience. It was one of those, I never messed up a
yell again. I was always... Oh, I'm about to
sneeze. Um... It was always one of those things
where whenever you did mess up you always learned
from it and you always made sure not to do it again.
Alright, let's see, did you ever though running
across the field somewhere fall? Oh, many times.
Oh man, I can remember one time definitely that
especially during midnight yell practice was the
worst just because all the juniors would be down on
the field so I remember one time doing a yell or
singing the Spirit of Aggieland and then
finishing and then whooping and just turning
around and running and I mean right when I did it
this guy and we just went all over the entire track
other times during the during games obviously
you're just sprinting i mean you're running as
fast as you can to go down to behind the goal post
when we score and i can remember times just taking
out a media person i mean just bullying right over
them and just being like sorry and running on um Did
any old time former students ever try to give you or
your buddies any advice on how to do? The yell
themselves? How to lead, be a yell leader? Um,
yeah, of course they did. Everyone always,
especially, It's funny, the old Yale leaders
wouldn't say as much as old students. Oh, okay. Old
students feel like, and this is just A&M, old
students that were just here and saw it feel like
that they know more about it than, let's say,
someone who actually did it. Not because they
think that in their mind, but we got more people
giving us advice that were never Yale leaders.
What did they think you ought to do more of or less
of? Well, just depending on the yell. They said do
this yell more, do this yell not more, change this
yell, do this differently, why don't you do this
anymore, why do you do this now? People have a hard
time with change, especially here. Are there any
yells that they said used to be done that aren't
being done anymore? Yeah, there's a lot. We
actually have a yell book from the 1920s. Wow. that
one of my friends had that we looked through, and
there's just a lot of yells in there that we don't do
anymore. It's funny. Back to any other funny
moments, goofy moments in the first year? Man,
there are so many, and I was trying to think of them
today. I wish I could have gone back through and
looked at stuff. The Hawaii trip was really fun,
just because I remember this. No one really
laughed at this except us, but in Hawaii... We
didn't have a lot of money and so we didn't want to go
and spend so we did a lot of going and buying stuff at
convenience stores and bringing it back to our
room and just sitting in on our room and just being
loud and crazy there. We were on like the 12th floor
of this hotel room and if this was the street then
this right here was where our hotel was and our room
was right here and so you're about there on the
street mid balconies and we We would get toilet
paper and we'd make spitballs about that big. And
then we'd just get a running start in the room and
just chunk them out onto the street. And you'd hit
cars going by. You'd hit pedestrians down on the
street. We did that for literally about four
hours. Just sat there and just threw spitballs.
They weren't spitballs, but they were water
balls, I guess you could call them. That was a lot of
fun. That was really funny. There's And by then,
I'm gathering that... Yeah, we were very close.
You're pulling together. Yeah, we definitely are
pulling together. And were you supportive when
anybody had a personal problem? Did the other Yale
leaders... Very supportive. Something that I
think, in my opinion, was one of the big steps that
happened for us was when, after the first game
against Tulsa that year, we played Tulsa for first
Yale. Mm-hmm. I think that's right. Didn't we play
Tulsa? I don't know if you can remember. I think we
were. I think we played Tulsa. Anyway, our first
home game that year, the first jail weekend, we
won. Fish came down and tackled us and picked us up.
Well, in between Kyle Field and Fish Pond, they
ripped my uniform off me because they were told
somehow that that was a good bull because since I
was the non-reg. This is your senior year? This is
my junior year. Oh, your junior year. My junior
year. That was something good to do. It was a good
bull to do. So they ripped my uniform off me. Well, I
get to Fish Pond, and I don't have a shirt on. I mean,
I have my undershirt on, but I don't have my yell
leader uniform on. And my pants are all torn and
stuff like that. And Jeff, people were just like,
what happened? I was like, the fish ripped my
uniform off me. And they just, I mean, they were
livid. Supposedly the next morning in Duncan, or
the next Monday morning in Duncan, Jeff Bailey
stood up and gave a talk that... People have said
we'll go down as the biggest chewing, ass chewing
that they've heard in Duncan Dining Hall since
they've been in school. Just about that they
shouldn't do that. And so that, one, I think it, I
didn't make a big stink of it. I didn't go to the
battalion. I didn't go to my friends on Northside.
I didn't do any of that and said, look at what these
CTs are doing. I just was like, that's an
unfortunate situation, you know. I didn't really
know how to handle it. I remember being really
hurt. I remember leaving that going. Why am I doing
this? Why am I trying? Why am I doing all this? And it
turned out fine. And so that was really good. I
think that was a big step up for us, just as far as
trusting the other person. All right. Now, by
this, your junior year, you're so busy that you
don't have many free weekends to travel much. Did
you go out of town much other than Yell Eater? Not
that I can remember. Where did you and your buddies
go just to have a good time on Saturday night? We
went to a couple places actually. Sophomore year,
we went to a place called the Ptarmigan, which was a
bar over in Bryan on South College. We go to
P-T-A-R. P-T-A-R, Ptarmigan, I guess you could so
call it. My junior year, we went to a lot of houses, I
remember, just because a lot of my friends weren't
21 yet, even though I was 21. Northgate, I became
much more a frequenter of Northgate simply
because I turned 21 somewhere before my junior
year. So my friends and I, we'd go to Northgate. I
never really went to the chicken a lot, amazingly
enough. People always talk about the Dixie
chicken. I never really started frequenting the
chicken until this year. Now I go a lot. But then I
never really went. How common was underage
drinking publicly? Very common. It's cut down a
lot in the past couple years. It's still done all
over the place. But it's cut down a lot simply
because TABC has kicked up a lot more. How often
during those years did people really get drunk? A
lot. A lot. And they were drinking beer?
Sometimes. It depended on where you were. The
chicken, yes. All you do is drink beer. You go to
places like Dudley's, you drink beer. You go to
places like the Dry Bean Saloon, that's just a shot
bar. So there's really not... And was it whiskey?
Depended. I mean, it was everything from whiskey
to there's a couple shots that have huge stories
that go with them. I mean, there's a lot of stuff.
And how often did you, were you aware there were
some people doing drugs? Actually, drugs were
never done on Northgate that I always saw. When
people would do drugs, they'd do them at houses.
They'd do them at parties. I never saw hardcore
drugs. I would see marijuana a lot. But I never
really saw any hardcore drugs. Marijuana, you
could just smell it. So you'd know what was going
on. As far as you know, where were people buying the
marijuana? From other students. Here in town?
Yeah, here in town. How was it coming to town? I know
a lot of my friends that did it. They would get it
from students that went to Blinn. But were the
Blinn students buying it from somebody? I have no
idea. I never got that. I didn't do that, so I never,
I just kind of steered clear of all that stuff. And
what would be your guess as to what percentage of
students today smoke cigarettes, tobacco? Smoke
cigarettes? I'd say a whole lot of people do every
once in a while. Not as a habit, but I'd say people
do, I'd say 40% of students Do it every once in a
while? Do Aggie women smoke as much as Aggie, in
percentages, as much as Aggie men? The ones that I
hang around do. Or is it more? No, it's the same.
It's the same. But see, I don't hang around anyone
that smokes all the time. Like I don't have any
smoker friends. But yet if we go out, we'll go out to
Northgate one night and someone will buy a pack of
cigarettes and 20 of us will have a cigarette
together, you know. Are there some places here in
the Bryan area that students go to that are clearly
dangerous for them? Martin Luther King and Bryan,
Martin Luther King Boulevard and Bryan. It's
really dangerous. Okay. I think it's pretty
dangerous for women at night anywhere. Anywhere.
Especially, I mean, it always, I always don't know
why, but I always see girls jogging at night on
campus. It just scares the trash out of me. I just, I
don't even know why. It's dumb. It is very dumb. As
much as we want to think that this is a really nice
place and there's no bad people, I mean, that's
just not true. That's just not true at all. Now,
you've heard the old legends about La Grange. The
best little... The best little whorehouse? Oh,
sure. Now, there is nothing like that anywhere. As
far as whorehouses? Not that I know of. There's
nothing like that anywhere now. Not that I know of,
no. And I don't think you'd be surprised. No one I
have interviewed knows anybody that actually
went to LaGrange. They heard people did, but they
don't know anybody. Of course not. Why would you
know anybody who went to LaGrange? All right,
did... How did that affect your participation in
religious activities?
brought it down, honestly, just because I didn't
have the time to go do it. Like, I'd be doing, I'd go
and speak to organizations on Tuesday nights, so I
wouldn't be able to go to Breakaway, per se. I
wouldn't, I wasn't able to, I didn't have the
opportunity to participate in a Bible study
through Ecumenical Club, the organization I was
in. I was out of town a lot on Sundays. In terms of
values, your code of ethics and so forth, Did you
come to realize that your fellow Yale leaders were
similar? Very similar, which was really neat. It
was actually a big encouragement when I did find
that out. It helped a lot. I actually live with one
of the senior Yale leaders now. He's my roommate.
And were all of you Anglos? Yes. Actually now, oh
no, no, actually there was a Catholic. There was a
Catholic. Okay. Yeah. Okay. The, all right, that
junior year as a Yale leader, when the year is over,
what had happened to your GPA compared to the
previous years? It had gone down like a point, like
point one. Oh, point one, not a full point. No, no,
no, like a tenth of a point. Okay. Still above
three? Yeah, I still, it's still above three right
now. Okay. I, the first time I had ever gotten below
three was last fall. All right. Then you ran for
senior yell leader in that spring. Describe that
campaign. That campaign, well, first off,
something that really neat happened was the Corps
didn't run anyone against me, which to my
knowledge is the first time that that's ever
happened, that the Corps of Cadets has not put up
five people. Why didn't they? I don't know. You
know, everybody has kind of their thoughts on it.
If I were trying to toot my own horn, I'd say, well,
they liked me so much and they liked the job that I
did that they wanted me to be there again. But I
don't think that's necessarily true. I think it
was a combination of them seeing, okay, he did the
job, he knows how to do the job the best, and why
wouldn't we want to re-elect that? And also, they
didn't think that they could, they wouldn't be
able to put someone up that could beat me. Alright,
as far as you know, who is it in the Corps that
decides who is going to run for what from the Corps?
Originally, it's called core block. I mean, I know
the answer. Core. Core block. Block. Mm-hmm. They
go out to parties.